Down syndrome is a chromosome abnormality
It happens at conception.
And there is no fault of anyone.
It's where an extra chromosome
on the twenty first chromosome.
One of the things to remember.
Is that the child will have
forty six chromosomes.
That would have had anyhow it
just has one additional chromosome.
So the child is a
combination of its parents like
like
it's brothers and sisters.
The fact that has an extra
chromosome he's going to give
the child a few
additional features
of somebody else with down
syndrome but it doesn't mean.
That that child is gone to look like
every other child with down syndrome
The child would look
like his or her family
so children with down syndrome.
Invariably have
a number of features including
facial features.
And.
Have intellectual disability.
As a result of the
effects of having three
copies of chromosome twenty one
on the developing brain
about half will have
a problem with the heart,and
the way the heart develops.
Some will have under
activity of the thyroid gland.
Occasionally they can
be blockage in the bowls
when a child down syndrome is born
The medical machine
goes into overdrive
and they taste for
everything as they should.
But that doesn't mean that your life is
going to be full of medical appointments
it is just for that
initial period.
Of checking everything
that they should
the heart.
The hearing
the bowls
all those things.
Once they're ticked a off.
It doesn't mean your
life is going to be.
Leaving at the doctor's
my name's Katie.
I have three kids.
And my eldest Taylor who is
seven and a half has down syndrome.
My name is Dona
and.
I have.
My husband and i have
five children
and Charlie who has
down syndrome is our fourth child
When the families in
hospital with a new baby.
It can feel to them often that.
Like they have given birth to a
diagnosis rather than to a baby.
So we make a big..
Issue of the fact that they have had a
baby and that baby should be celebrated
cause the baby's
born not a diagnosis
after birth most children
with down syndrome
can be treated and exactly
the same way as any other child
They can be breastfeed.
they can be with their mother
children can go
home with their parents
bond and..
Settle into the
routine of the family.
So finding out that your
child has down syndrome
can be quite a shock
for parents especially
if people haven't learned that
during the pregnancy and had time
to come to terms with it
before the birth of a child.
And.
Parents often find it very
helpful to come into contact
with the local
Down syndrome association
who can provide enormous
support and help
and they can find
help from family, friends
from the local doctor.
They might.
Be referred for
can see if that's.
Helpful for those individuals.
Most people.
Think that
that
having a child with
a disability is going
has ruined their life and
the life plans but that's.
That's not the case
that never the case.
It might slightly
Take you to another path.
But that's actually
a really good path.
One of the difficulties of my job is trying
to explain to families when they're in
often such a state of grief
that life won't be like that.
Forever.
It he's just a period of grief
unfortunately they have to go through.
And trying to explain to them all the
wonders that this child like any child.
Is gone to bring to thier life.
Early on.
I would've probably thought.
What if I
Can't love this child.
Particularly when you think
how can i get excited
about a child who..
Is not going to be able to
to do something
as simple as.
Tie their shoelaces
how can i get excited about..
But you know what you do
you get excited
now because they've been
able to achieve something.
That..
Okay maybe your other
kids did do a lot earlier
but they still get there
and that's the important thing
He can be a very
loving little boy.
He will be just running
around the room doing his thing
and he would just come over
to give me a quick cuddle.
And he goes mum
and then after a few runs again.
He just comes in
for these sort of ..
a top up
if you like.
Of the fiction and
off he goes again
which is really nice to
see that he wants that interaction.
So..
that sort of tops me up and.
We can do this.
We can keep going.